A CHINESE VOCABULARY OF MALACCA MALAY WORDS       727

125. = "rice in the husk".
126. The first character of the Chinese transcription must be meant for pu not shih. The Malay means, literally, "hard fruit," and is really the name of the "candle-nut", Aleurites moluccanus L. (Euphorbiaceæ).
127. The identification is not quite certain. The Malay word means "a drug for fumigation", or the smoke of it, and "to fumigate". There is also a word rabok "tinder".
128. damar is "tree resin" (not necessarily incense).
129. Literally, "sinking gaharu," the Chinese name also embodies this characteristic of its sinking in water. Cf. Chau, p. 205, JSBRAS., 18, p. 361, Groen., p. 260.
133 and 137. These entries are puzzling. By a slight alteration of the last character in the transcription it could be made into 半 pan, so that 137 and the second half of 133 would represent the Arabic lubān "incense". In that case the first half of 133 might conceivably (though very doubtfully) stand for the Arabic kundur, which has a similar meaning, or even the Sanskrit gandha "perfume". Cf. Chau, pp. 195 seq., 199. There are, however, other possibilities. There is recorded in Wilkinson's dictionary (s.v. kĕmĕnnyan) a "sweet smelling gum" named k. sĕrani, literally "Christian benzoin" (i.e. of foreign origin) that has a synonym gĕtah rokam, which might be the origin of our transcription.
134. The Malay word means "caraway seed", an imported product (Carum Carui L. Umbelliferæ) and other similar things, such as cumin and anise. Cf. Ridley, s.v. Jintan.
136. Cf. Chau, 211. According to the Encycl. v. Ned.-Indië, this is Lawsonia inermis L. (Lythraceæ), but Favre makes it Myristica iners. It does not, however, appear under either name in Ridley's list of Malay plant names, but Mr. Ridley in a personal communication writes that it is a shrubby climber, Dalbergia parviflora Roxb., found in Sumatra and the Malay Peninsula, the wood of which is valued as incense.
137. Probably this is for lubān. See 133.
138. Cf. Chau, pp. 200-1, where the following are distinguished, viz. (1) the storax of the ancients, apparently a product of Styrax officinalis, still common in Syria, (2) storax oil, a product of Liquidambar orientalis L., of Asia Minor, and (3) a liquid storax produced (probably) from the Liquidambar altingiana L., of Java, the native name of which is rasamala. This latter name seems to have been
