728       E. D. EDWARDS AND C. O. BLAGDEN—

applied ultimately in the Malayan region to (2) as well. Cf. Hobson-Jobson, s.v. rose-mallows. The Encycl. v. N.-I. considers the name rasamala to be derived from ros melleus "honey dew", but Hobson-Jobson and the Oxford Dictionary treat rasamala as the original word; and it seems very unlikely that a local tree would be named after the foreign name either of a foreign product or even of its own. Another liquidambar is also found in America (cf. Garcia da Orta, part i, bk. i, chap. 1, ad fin., bk. 3, chap. 6).
The Chinese transcription, however, is not entirely convincing and the matter is complicated by the fact that molö is said to be one of the foreign (i.e. non-Chinese) names for frankincense (Chau, p. 196).
143. The Malay name also means "black medicine", and is the name of several species of Goniothalamus, particularly Giganteus and Ridleyi, the latter having also the variant name banitan, which is possibly the origin of the form in the transcription.
145. Literally "white rattan". Cf. 445. The transcription suggests an archaic (and etymologically justifiable) pronunciation rautan.
146. The transcription has not been interpreted. It may be corrupt, and the order of the characters may have been changed. The proper Malay word is pinang, from which the Chinese name (attested by I Tsing in the seventh century) is derived.
147. Literally "water grass".
149. The Malay means "orpiment".
150. Perhaps sireh "the betel leaf", sĕrai, Citronella grass (Andropogon Cymbopogon), or the Javanese jahi "ginger" ?
151. The Malay name applies to Raphanus caudatus L. (Cruciferae).
152. This is the camphor from Dryobalanops, found in Sumatra, Borneo, and the Malay Peninsula.
154. The transcription indicates the Malay form, the original Javanese being kumukus.
155. Possibly there has been misunderstanding here. The word in transcription looks like sĕligi "javelin", a weapon made from the nibong palm (Oncosperma tigillaria).
156. bongor is Lagerstroemia regina or some allied species.
157. The Malay name also means "iron wood" and according to the Encycl. v. Ned.-Indië it includes a variety of hard, dark woods. Cf. 424.
