732       E. D. EDWARDS AND C. O. BLAGDEN—

192. = 206. pipit is applied also to some finches and some weaver birds.
195. The Malay also means "water duck", and is applied to the cotton teal, Nettopus coromandelianus. Cf. 63, 171, and 208.
196. Literally "horse of the big sea". It is not clear what animal is intended by the Malay, which may be merely a translation of the Chinese.
197. = "porpoise".
198. Literally "otter of the big sea". Another case of omitted duplication, cf. 179, 191. As for the meaning, cf. 196.
199. The transcription suggests a pronunciation kĕrĕbau (or even karabau).
200. = "jungle fowl", in Javanese and probably in Malay also, though not found recorded with that meaning. The two words ayam and alas are, each of them, in use; but the ordinary word for "jungle" is hutan.
201. The identification seems reasonably certain though only a part of the specific name is given in the transcription.
202. Literally "yellow bird". The oriole is now styled burong kunyit-kunyit, "the turmeric-coloured bird."
203. If a sentence, it means "a bird calls", and bĕrbunyi would be better (cf. 30, 31). If the meaning is to be "the sound of a bird", the order must be inverted.
204. A white bird, rather like a stork, the egret Herodias alba, and other allied species. (Cf. Winstedt, s.v. bird.)
205. = "Malayan crow".
206. = 192, q.v.
208. = 195, q.v.
209. Literally "fire fowl", which is a translation of the Chinese name, and does not appear to be recorded elsewhere in Malay. In mediaeval Chinese it also applied to the cassowary, a Moluccan bird (Groen., pp. 198, 262), which is probably what is meant here.
210. Doubtless this was what Groeneveldt calls a "crane crest", which, as he explains (p. 198) was really the horny crest of the hornbill (buceros), from which buttons, etc., are carved. batok = "crown of the head", often confused with batu "stone".
211. The Malay order is inverted in the transcription. As rectified, it means "stone (or rock) bird", unidentified, and is a literal version of the Chinese name.
212. = "scale, shell (of tortoise)". Cf. 216, 433, and 434.
