740       E. D. EDWARDS AND C. O. BLAGDEN—

314. Literally "master of the slave", an honorific serving as a pronoun.
315. Rather a literary word, used chiefly in correspondence.
316. For the transcription, cf. 45 and 49.
319. A somewhat doubtful identification.
321. Cf. 312, 336.
322. The transcription character ought to have been doubled.
324. Literally "has seen".
325. = "hear". The d is optional.
326. The transcription seems to represent two or three Malay phrases embodying instructions or orders in connection with arranging persons according to rank or precedence or the like. It seems possible that the first two characters (cha an) = jangan "do not !"
327. = "go up into (i.e. enter) the palace".
328. Cf. 312. The sense is correct, though literally the word means "to face".
329. Cf. 312.
331. = "finished".
332. = "humbly accept" (literally "put on one's head") "the princely bounty".
333. = Arabic salām, the usual salutation and accompanying gesture, though the transcription would fit sĕlam "to dive". Possibly the Chinese gesture of bowing was misunderstood by the informant who gave the Malay equivalent.
335. = "O Sultan", which is not the usual courtly mode of address.
336. Cf. 321 and 330.
337. A probable interpretation, which would mean "thousands of bounties", though the form with the prefix pĕng- does not seem to be recorded.
338. = "bow".
339. = "10,000 years". Cf. 459. The expression is a literal version of the Chinese.
340. = "please".
341. = "things".
342. = "a clever (or competent) person".
343. = "reckon". Cf. 275.
344. = "the raja entertains (at a feast)".
346. = (1) "to remember", (2) "remember!", i.e. "be careful!"
347. The second half is unidentified. Cf. 480.
